[MNM] Recommended rule config (#11249)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/magic-network-monitoring/rules/recommended-rule-configuration.md

---
title: Recommended rule configuration
pcx_content_type: how-to
weight: 1
---

> # Recommended Rule Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Recommended rule configuration
```

> Customers can create [Magic Network Monitoring rules](/magic-network-monitoring/rules/) to monitor the traffic volume of their network, for a set of IP addresses and / or IP prefixes. Magic Network Monitoring rules have a traffic volume threshold that is set by the customer. If the traffic volume threshold is crossed, Magic Network Monitoring will send an alert via email, webhook, or PagerDuty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers can create [Magic Network Monitoring rules](/magic-network-monitoring/rules/) to monitor the traffic volume of their network, for a set of IP addresses and/or IP prefixes. Magic Network Monitoring rules have a traffic volume threshold that is set by the customer. If the traffic volume threshold is crossed, Magic Network Monitoring will send an alert via email, webhook, or PagerDuty.
```

> We have outlined a guide that customers can follow to create appropriate Magic Network Monitoring rules, and set accurate rule thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the guidelines outlined in this page to create appropriate Magic Network Monitoring rules and set accurate rule thresholds.
```
Trying to make it closer to the reader (implicit "you" instead of "customers").

Author: I thought about that multiple times! I'll change it. Thanks

## Rule IP prefixes

> Cloudflare recommends that customers start by creating one Magic Network Monitoring rule for each public `/24` IP prefix within their network. It is helpful to include the range of the `/24` IP prefix to make it easier to find and filter for the rule in Magic Network Monitoring analytics.

Reviewer: Nit: Consider changing "customers" to "you" throughout this page, if appropriate.

As customers become more familiar with the traffic patterns across each IP prefix, we encourage them to create more complex rules with IP prefixes that are smaller or larger than a `/24` prefix depending on their needs. Customers can also combine and monitor multiple IP prefixes within the same rule.

## Rule threshold

Customers can follow the steps below to configure appropriate rule thresholds.

### Initial rule configuration

When customers initially configure Magic Network Monitoring, they may not know the typical traffic volume patterns across each of their IP prefixes. Cloudflare recommends that customers set a high rule threshold of either 10 Gbps (gigabits per second) or 10 Mpps (million packets per second) that is unlikely to be crossed during initial configuration.

> This will allow customers to collect initial information about the typical traffic volume for an Magic Network Monitoring rule without receiving any alerts. After the customer has collected and analyzed the historical traffic data for an Magic Network Monitoring rule, the threshold should be adjusted to an appropriate value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow customers to collect initial information about the typical traffic volume for a Magic Network Monitoring rule without receiving any alerts. After the customer has collected and analyzed the historical traffic data for an Magic Network Monitoring rule, the threshold should be adjusted to an appropriate value.
```

> Threshold Type | Recommended rule threshold to collect initial data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Threshold type | Recommended rule threshold to collect initial data
```

---            | ---
Bits           | 10 Gpbs (10,000,000,000 bits per second)
Packets        | 10 Mpps (10,000,000 packets per second)

### Setting the appropriate threshold

After customers have created the initial set of rules to monitor their network traffic, they should collect 14-30 days of historical traffic volume data for each rule.

> Cloudflare recommends that new customers should set a rule threshold that is two times larger than the maximum non-attack traffic observed for a one minute time interval within an Magic Network Monitoring rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare recommends that new customers set a rule threshold that is two times larger than the maximum non-attack traffic observed for a one minute time interval within an Magic Network Monitoring rule.
```

To find the maximum non-attack traffic for a one minute time interval over the past 14-30 days, customers can filter for the specific rule they want to analyze. To do that:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login), and select your account.
2. Go to **Analytics & Logs** > **Magic Monitoring**.
3. Select **Add filter**.

> 4. In **New filter**, use the dropdown menus to create the following filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In **New filter**, use the drop-down menus to create the following filter:
```

    Field           | Operator | Rule name
    ---             |---       | ---

>     _Monitoring Rule_ | _equals_   | `<RULE_NAME>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _Monitoring Rule_ | _equals_   | `<RULE_NAME>`
```

![How to choose a custom time range.](/images/magic-network-monitoring/custom-time-range.png)

Customers should review the selected seven day time range and identify the largest traffic volume peak. Then, click and drag on the largest traffic peak to view the traffic volume data for a smaller time window. Continue until you are viewing the traffic volume data in one minute time intervals. 

Record the largest traffic volume peak for the rule in a spreadsheet, then repeat this process across 14-30 days of data. The rule threshold should be updated to be two times the largest traffic spike for a one minute time interval across 14-30 days of data. Customers should go through this process to set the threshold for each Magic Network Monitoring rule.

## Rule duration

> A customer’s IP prefixes may experience inconsistent spikes in traffic volume across one minute time intervals. We recommend that customers set a rule duration of 120 seconds to reduce false positive alerts on short term non-malicious traffic spikes. A rule duration of 120 seconds means that the traffic volume must be above the rule threshold for 120 seconds before an alert is fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A customer’s IP prefixes may experience inconsistent spikes in traffic volume across one minute time intervals. We recommend that customers set a rule duration of 120 seconds to reduce false positive alerts on short-term non-malicious traffic spikes. A rule duration of 120 seconds means that the traffic volume must be above the rule threshold for 120 seconds before an alert is fired.
```

> ## Adjusting rules overtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adjusting rules over time
```

> After customers update their first set of rule thresholds based on historical traffic data, it will be important to monitor for MNM alerts to see if the rule thresholds are appropriate. Customers are encouraged to adjust the rule thresholds and the duration overtime to find the ideal alert sensitivity level for their specific network environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After customers update their first set of rule thresholds based on historical traffic data, it will be important to monitor for Magic Network Monitoring alerts to check if the rule thresholds are appropriate. Customers are encouraged to adjust the rule thresholds and the duration over time to find the ideal alert sensitivity level for their specific network environment.
```
Nit: We haven't defined the MNM acronym until now, and we probably shouldn't use it only in the last paragraph of the page.
Let's avoid "see" if possible.

Author: This one slipped  through the cracks. I had many MNMs that I changed :)
